I've never been in the military.
Obviously, I've never been in combat.
I've never been directly engaged in hazardous duty.
All the cops I knew were long since out of it because they were by then detectives when I worked with them, or FBI men, who very seldom get shot and keep doing detective work.
It happens, but not to anybody either.
I got a new phone book recently.
The old phone book had all the addresses and phone numbers that my kids had accumulated since they got out of Milton Academy in the mid-80s.
It also had 14 names and addresses of people I knew pretty well, like death.
And they were not in their 80s.
These were people for whom the shade went up in their 40s and 50s.
I lost one of my closest friends from law school in years 43.
I am going to get it done today.
I am never going to see this day again.
If I don't get it done today, I'll try to get it done tomorrow, but if I have gone to a higher or lower jurisdiction, forgive me, I can't manage it.
That's the way I live it.
And that's the best way.
And that is why
That is how I justify the fact that I do not suffer.
I will not do it.
I will not be uncivil if I can avoid it.
Coffee, sir?
I'll have some coffee, please.
Black coffee.
Coffee, sir?
Yeah.
Want another glass of wine?
If you have one, I'll have one.
How much of a hurry is you when you get some time?
My wife's picking up at 2.30, so I got a little bit of time.
Let's have one, then.
We don't see each other very often.
We can justify that.
My friend Jim.
Take a nice nap and blame it on me, which you will.
Like Deborah Carr, she in sympathy when you talk of this afterwards, and you will.
Be kind.
But if I find that you
If I find myself in the company of an unintelligent person, never mind a pleasant, just unintelligent, somebody who doesn't really have anything to offer in conversation, which after all, what we live on,
That's what we survive on.
That's our sustenance.
I will do my best, and it's pretty good by now.
I've developed a lot of training.
Sir, another of the white, two Chardonnays.
Two Chardonnays.
I will get out of it.
I will be gone.
In intermission, my seat will be empty.
Because I haven't got time.
My son...
My son really gave me a great insight.
When he got his condo, he works from Microsoft, because you and I probably will be by the end.
Well, he works here.
He's a consultant.
Well, John works here.
This company was bought by Microsoft, but he didn't go.
Anyway, when he got his condo, he refused to have a television.
He said the reason is he wastes too much time watching television, particularly ESPN, when he should be reading books.
And I'd say, I've got a smart kid here.
So now I watch television while I'm riding my goddamn exercise.
Well, that's a good time to do it.
It is, because exercise is boring.
I watch 20 minutes of television.
I know it's not enough exercise, but that's all I'll do, and I will do that.
It's good for your heart.
And it's good for the lower limbs, too, because it gets them moving.
20 is the least, that's your aerobic threshold.
Until I just pop a slight sweat in the winter.
in the summertime of town.
And even if it isn't enough, I will do that.
And if you tell me I've got to do 40 minutes, I won't do it.
That's all.
Simple.
So I watch 20 minutes of television, during which I see 12 minutes of commercials, four minutes of badinage among the weatherman and the sportscaster and the newscaster, and maybe two or three actual minutes of news.
But I get that done.
Then I go into the living room.
We generally eat between 7.30 and 8.
And I read periodicals until we eat.
I can't quite keep up doing it that way, but I can come close.
Do you still read the periodicals?
All those periodicals?
Not as many.
I cull them every year or so.
I've dropped car and driver and road and track, for example.
I'm now down to automobile.
That's a lot.
It is.
I dropped...
Transatlantic Review.
Transatlantic.
You're into TLS.
I try to.
I just re-subscribe because my friend Donald Penner .
I dropped it once and I've started again.
And they pile up.
You know, you almost dread to see the postman.
That's embarrassing.
There's all these unopened.
Well, then after dinner, I read from approximately 8.30 or so.
9 o'clock, somewhere in there, and drink coffee until 10.
And by then, I'm not absorbing it.
I read books during that period, which is why I'm as far as only as I just started yours the other night.
And I do retain it.
I do absorb, and I do enjoy what I'm reading.
But by 10 o'clock, I'm finished.
And by 10 o'clock, oddly enough, the networks seem to be willing, except this week, to put on something that will divert.
And I watch that, and so the news comes on, and I watch that and go to bed.
And the next day, repeat the mixture as before.
And I like this life.
My friend Jay Goodman, who was with Stanford with me, teaches at Wheaton, has been for 35 years.
He says, what I've done is reinvent the life of the graduate student.
Only now they're paying me.
When you have these kids, and I'm sure that any kid at VU can't get into the writing class.
It's by submission.
I have a limit of a ceiling of 15 on the afternoon class, which is 4 o'clock, and a ceiling of 20 on the evening class, which is 3 o'clock.
And you get into there by showing me that you've got some talent in writing.
And I would imagine that on a less demanding basis, we still don't suffer from that class anymore.
I mean, you still have to have, you're not going to put up with a shit if a kid doesn't write.
I don't think it does a service to a kid to tell him he can write when he can't.
I've had people plead with me to let them into the course, and I've had to tell them to their faces, and I'm good enough.
And the course proceeds on the Sephardic method.
It's all dialogue.
You're going to be criticized in front of your peers, and they're going to criticize you.
It's definitely fairly civil, because everybody realizes it's going to be a good turn in the barrel.
So we're generally pretty nice to each other, but nevertheless severe.
If the story doesn't work, you're going to hear about it.
You're going to hear why.
If you take this information to have, the chances are you write better stories.
And if you take it, if you're feeling straight, you should drop out while you still can.
We'll drop in the books.
I tell them flat out, not in an ugly or overbearing fashion, I hope, but it's a matter of stating facts.
And when I've been asked by another professor to let somebody in whose submission convinced me that he or she was not qualified, I have said, no, it's not a kindness.
Because people have gotten into that class when I've made a mistake in judgment.
And they've gotten ripped to shreds, and they've left.
And they blame you, probably.
I don't know whether they blame me or themselves or their mothers and fathers or the stars in the sky.
But it's a very unpleasant experience, and I prefer it not happen to them.
This course is supposed to be fun.
The creative writing course, the purpose of it is to legitimatize the fact that you're spending your study time writing stories instead of reading books.
That's what it's for.
It makes it okay for you to spend, well, you get three credits, four credits, one quarter of your study time writing stories.
Of course, most of them are going to spend a half if they really get into it.
I near flunked out of Stanford graduate school because I was writing a bad book.
Too bad, wasn't it?
So I'm just as rigorous as I can be.
simply because it's so unpleasant, and I'm wrong.
And now and then I'll get a kid who submits a story that was the crowning achievement of his previous writing course, and that's okay.
And something has happened to him, and you know it instantly.
You know it instantly, don't you?
That it's been... Yeah, because they don't bother to type out a new copy.
Simple.
You can tell, you know, the guy spilled his coffee on it.
It's a vicious sport, and since the invention of the computer, it's awfully difficult for these kids to get published.
I'm inventing a new course now.
I don't know whether it will go over with the department, but I'm going to give it a try.
I'd like you to learn.
The courses I have now are advanced fiction writing colon for publication.
This would be advanced nonfiction writing for publication.
It would be out of the essay.
Oh, I don't think so.
I think it would be easier because they could get the market.
Oh, it's certainly better than short fiction.
That's for sure.
Well, then you've got an improvement right there.
There is no course in the catalog that I can find.
which would which this would do for them this would be of course for people it's particularly good for pretty well students they could lose all the clarity they can get in there i'd love to teach a course of literary criticism they bring in the galley of the book that you can't go and find a review on
Give it to the film, you know?
You're all alone.
You have nothing to taste.
Yeah.
No CliffsNotes.
No, nothing.
That'd be great.
Wouldn't that be interesting?
Sure would.
Yeah, I'm proud of that.
Why don't you offer to the price?
Yeah, there's just tons of new things.
I'd give them all to the clock library and start with 50 cents, you know, whatever.
But, you know, it's easy.
We offer it at Clara.
I thought of it.
You should.
And get an honest amount of money on it.
I still think I'm still establishing who I am.
But these things feed on each other.
They do.
I will say when I'm thinking of the papers, I'll never go down before we begin.